I spent a fair amount of time exploring the Digital Panopticon.  While it was very interesting, and I think it does a good job of data visualisation in general (though some of the graph colouring is particularly terrible, neon colours just don’t look great. Actually, a minor digression, a lot of the colours used for the graphs look… questionable. It feels a little bit like the excel standard, for all the horror show that is. ALso, some issues with some graphs on mobile.) I think one fundamental thing it lacks is some kind of external narrative, introduction, tour or something else. If you were using it as someone who already knew what they generally wanted, or as a subject matter expert, I think this would be significantly less important. For me however, upon entry into the site, it showed me its interesting, newest graph and text telling me about the great amount of vast data they have. Two articles are highlighted, are both interesting, but for some reason, they do not actually interact with the data visualisations of the site at all. They are in essence separate from the data visualisation of the archive itself. 

I think this is something of a mistake. While I support the idea of more vertical and unbiased exploration of data, at the same time, those that archive the dataset know the most about it. Giving people the choice of simply perusing the data or something else, I think, would create a kind of interesting structure. What great stories have come from the archive here? Who uses it? What parts are underused? 

In my opinion, the archive lacks a greater narrative, a story that it is trying to tell. Personally, perhaps I go too far the other direction. I want to see stories, opinions, and narratives given to almost everything, because I find them both interesting and fascinating to deconstruct. I think without a greater story or tour, the archivists are slightly absent from the archive. 

What they do have, which I think is along the lines of what I want, is the ‘live of the week’, however this is simply a single person’s window. If the focus of the archive is placed on large scale datasets, which it seems to be based on the massive section on data visualisation, I find it odd that it really doesn’t highlight… anything about this, really. 

In the end, I think it was the lack of this narrative structure that stuck with me after visiting the site. Despite the vast amount of information, I found it hard to absorb or understand without something overarching to build that understanding on. 

In terms of my own projects, I tried to incorporate this though into them. I spent quite a bit of time learning about podcasting and audio in general. I knew very little before this week, and I feel that I have a solid grasp on the very basics afterwards. I’ve done mapping before, but I tried to use this kind to shape a narrative story. I feel I was less successful at this then at the audio side, but I don’t feel poorly about it, I think a better thought out project might be able to do something more interesting. 

At the very least, the site is significantly more usable for this then google my maps is, which is what I learned to do this on in second year. Honestly, I would much rather have learned these tools then. 

I enjoying getting to pick where I wanted to spend my time this week, I felt more able to take a really deep dive into one aspect, which felt rewarding. 

